Today I will demonstrate you why is impossible to reproduce the quantum mechanical result 
using local hidden variables with the bell test experiment.
And I will do so using my bell test simulation program.

We can use different formulas to create a plan that both entangled particles must follow.
Then we executed that plan many times using different random angles of measurement.
Finally we observe the result after many experiments and compare it to the quantum mechanics result.

If you don't know about the idea of quantum entanglement, I encourage you to watch other video's about that first.
In thisa video focus on explaining the bell test results.
When we measure the spin of 2 entangled particles, their correlation is expressed by the squared cosine of half the angle
of measurement between the particles.
This means that when both particles are measured under the same angle, they always are completely anti-correlated and
thus have opposite values.
Therefore, we only need one formula for the plans at detector A en B. 
The plan at detector B is always exactly opposite to the plan at detector A.
Furthermore, we have only one variable: the angle of measurement at the detector; 
that is the only thing we can change locally.

To get an understanding of the results of the application, let's first look at a plan where we
just pick a random value at each detector.
After many experiments we will see a graph with a correlation of zero at all angles:
the values at both detectors are sometimes the same, sometimes different, so there is no correlation or anti-correlation.

Now let's take a look at the plan where we use the cosine of half the angle, like the QM formula.
Because we can only apply it to the angle of measurement at side A or B, but not to both sides,
we cannot achieve the correlation of QM.

We can use a modulo operator to create spikes at certain angles.

We can even create funny patterns, however we can never reproduce the same graph that QM yields.

With this button we let the computer swap 360.000 samples, until the result resembles QM as much as possible.
It turns out that we obtain the graph that represents this formula:
This means: show a value of 1 at A for every angle smaller than 180 degrees and show a value of 0 for every angle
greater than 180 degress. The value at B is than 0 smaller at 180 degress and 1 when greater than 180 degrees.

So why we cannot obtain the correlation of QM?
Let's take a look at the graph where the resulting angle is close to zero.
Here the graph is almost horizontal. This means that even though the angle changes quite a bit,
the correlation stays almost the same.
Let's say the with an angle of 1 degree, the correlation changes with only 0.1%
This means that out of every 1000 measurements, we now measure 1 time the same value instead of different values.
This is valid when measuring at 0 degrees on A and 1 degree on B, but also when measuring at 4 degrees on A and 5 degrees
on B, for example. Because the resulting angle is 1 in both cases.
So, if only 1 value in 1000 can change every 1 degree, no more that 2 values can change when we take 2 times the amount of degrees.
This is exactly what John Steward Bell realised.

Here is another way of looking at it:
Observe the are under the graph. This represent an amount of different and the same values.
The QM result is both more different and the same than the HV result.
This is not possible to achieve with a plan, that yields either a different of a same result.

The only way to realise the QM result is when the value at A sometimes changes when a different angle is picked at B.
How this is achieved, faster than light, is one of the greatest mysteries of today's science.

This concludes my explanation.
If you want to download this program, or the source code, please look at the links in the description.


